Okay, so now with this good
amount of knowledge, let's jump
onto some coding part.
Right?
So I have a new project,
so I like to set up things from
scratch so that you know.
So first things first, I'll just
do an npm Init hyphen y
so that I have a package JSON file.
So you can see a very simple
package or JSON file.
And at this point you know
what is a package JSON file.
Then I'm, I like to do npm install
at the array types/ node
so that my VS code is working
absolutely like a charm.
And then let's create
an index js file.
So usually you will
have a lot of files.
Okay?
So you will have index js file.
You will have a lot of files.
But index js file is the one
that we need to execute.
And this is where we are going
to import all our code.
So first things first, let's
have the HTTP setup right here.
That is required.
And let's import the.
No, not like this node HTTP, Right.
That looks more, good.
Then you can create a server.
Okay, you can create a server that
is HTTP.create server and you have
to pass a callback function
which has request and response.
Right?
Then finally you can just say server.
Listen on some port.
I, mean usually we use 8000
for the development.
And then you can pass a callback
function which says console log,
that server is running on port.
Which port are we running?
We are running on port
number 8,000, right?
So port 8,000 seems good.
Now see guys, if I have to run this
particular code, I have to say node
and I have to say index js, right?
But you know what you can do is
instead of saying it like this, you
can configure your custom script.
How just remove this
particular script.
You can just say, hey,
I want a script.
Let's say start.
This can be anything.
And whenever someone says start,
I have to run this as the command.
Now what you can do is using
npm, I repeat, using npm,
you can just say start.
Okay, npm start.
And what this will do is this
will basically run whatsoever
you have specified here.
For example, let's say for
I just say echo, hey man.
Okay, just, just anything.
Now if I do npm start, you can
see it is just saying hey man.
So npm start basically reads
the start script from here and runs
whatever is as the value.
Okay?
So usually you will have
a lot of things here.
For example, you can have start, you
can have build, and then you can
have the build command, you can have
xyz which does something, something.
So you can even create
your own and scripts.
So usually you will
have a start script.
So npm start, which
will start the server.
Okay.
Now in the server, what I want
to really do is I don't
want to do nothing much.
First of all, I'll just do
a console dot log that I
got an incoming request.
Okay?
So there is an incoming request at.
So let's have the time.
Okay, so I want to console
log the timestamp.
So just have you know, date
dot now that will give
you the current timestamp.
So there is a new request
coming at this time.
Then what we will do is
let me just do a console.log of
full request.C headers.
Okay, so this is how you
can access the headers.
Okay, so you remember headers, right?
Headers.
So if I want to access this
authorization header only I can just
say request headers.sorry.
authorization.
So this will give me the value
for just the authorization headers.
But let's just console log
the whole object, okay,
that these are the headers.
And don't forget to
send the response.
So to send the response.
Okay, so this, this is nothing.
This is just a comment.
You can just say request
dot write head.
Sorry, not request
response write head.
So right head.
Where is the right head thing?
Yeah, here is the right head
status code.
So I'll just send you
a 200 status code.
Okay.
And then finally you can just
do a response.end saying.
I mean you can just say okay.
Okay.
I'll just say okay.
Yeah, that's it.
So this is my beautiful server
that is up and running.
Now let's do an npm Start.
So you can see that server
is running on Port 8000
and everything is seems cool.
So let me just open a window
and go on to localhost8000.
So this is what we are getting right
now when we go back we have a lot
of console log things, right?
So let's see that.
Then I hit this server when I said
localhost8000 on my browser.
Browser made a request to my server.
Yes or no?
So let me just do it again.
So I'll just do a command K
to clear everything from here
and network and refresh.
Can you see that?
We made a request to localhost8000
that is a get request.
So by default browser will
always make a get request.
You got a 2000.
Okay.
And these were the headers that
your browser Sent, right?
So it sent an accept encoding, accept
language cache, control connection,
host, right and everything.
So browser is sending a lot
of information now.
Can you see that all this
information is available here?
This is basically same
thing, see Accept encoding,
gzip, deflate branch.
So you can see you will have
an accept encoding here also.
So where is accept encoding?
Yeah, accept encoding.
See the same value here.
So all these values are basically
same that the browser has sent you.
Right?
So you can access
the headers like this.
Okay, let's just do one thing.
Let's just do it at 201 now.
Now I want to send a response of 201
now.
Guys, don't you think that this is
irritating to do a control C
and restart the server every time?
So what I'll do is I'll
just add a Var command.
Okay, Just add a Var command
so that if I do npm
Start it is automatically watching.
So if I change anything, my server
is automatically restarting.
So now if I do this thing you
can see automatically restarts.
Now if I do a refresh here.
Now I'm getting a 201.
So now the server sent a 201,
which doesn't make any sense.
But yeah, you can see that this
is how you can get the request.
Now from here, from here what
I can do is let's just try to see
that what encoding or what
language we are accepting.
Okay, so I'll just copy this.
Okay, I'll just copy and I'll
say that response dot end I want
to send a message that is hey,
you can accept okay, and then
I'll just say request.headers.
accept language.
Like this because it's a hyphen.
So now let's see if I do a refresh.
See the server is trying to read our
headers and sending me back this.
So server can read these headers as
key value pair so we can process it
that what the client really wants.
And based on that what we
can do, we can basically send
an appropriate response.
Okay, so this is how you
can read the headers.
Now you can even read the body.
Okay so body can be anything.
So you will have access
to request, data.
Okay so request body is there
and there is something
known as request method.
Okay, request method is also here.
So let's try to console
log this request method.
So if I do a refresh
you are getting a git.
Okay, so to make a post Request you
need JavaScript on the front end.
So let me show you how
you can even do that.
Okay, so in the JavaScript what
we can do is here I'll just
write a code that is fetch.
Hey, can you please
make a fetch call to.
To my own server?
With using this.
Using the post method.
Okay.
And I'll not be sending any data.
Enter.
We caught an error.
What's the error?
Oh, sorry.
This should be actually
like this, right?
Enter.
So now you can see that we
got a post request, right?
The front end was able
to send a post request.
Similarly, front end can
even send a patch request.
So let's say patch, okay?
And enter.
So you can see that now we
are getting a patch request.
So this is a request method
that you can access.
Like this.
Similar to this, you
have a request dot URL.
Okay, so let's see that.
What is this request URL.
So if I am on localhost 8000
URL is coming to be slash.
Okay, you can ignore this five icon.
This is a this is something that
browser internally makes
a request request for this logo.
Do you see this logo here?
For this, let's go
to slash contact us.
Okay, so even if I go
to contact us, right?
You can see the request is
coming to slash contact us.
So that means when you are
building a server,
you can do something like this.
You can have a switch case
on request URL.
Right?
Request URL.
And you also want to have a switch
case on like the methods, right?
If it's a get method or that.
But yeah, on that later
case, if it is a root.
Okay, in this case what we
will do is let's always
write ahead of 200 only.
Okay, let's always write
ahead of 200 only.
So what I'll do is I'll just do
a response dot end so I'll just
say return response N
saying that you are on the homepage.
So this is your home page.
And let's do a break
then if the case.
Okay, if the case is
slash contact us.
Okay, in this particular scenario,
what I can do is the break
is not required because you
know, I'm just doing a return.
So I can just do a return
that hey, contact me
at pius girl.dev@gmail.com.
nice.
Similar to this, Similar to this, you
can have a case of let's say about.
Okay, we will create one
more page that is about.
So in case of about, let's just
return response dot end saying
I am a software engineer.
Okay, I'm a software engineer.
Then let's have a default
case Default case should be
a four or four, right?
If you're on the default case
in this particular scenario,
it should be a 4 or 4.
So let's say, hey 404.
And finally response dot end
end saying that you.
Sorry, you are lost.
You are lost.
Okay, so let's just
say that you are lost.
Nice and cool.
So now let's test a server.
So if I do a refresh,
contact me@us.devgmail.com.
okay, that's fine.
You can ignore this.
If I go on to the slash,
the server crashed.
The server crashed.
Okay, so why did the server crashed?
The reason for that is,
you know, we are trying
to mutate the headers twice.
So what you can do is you can also
shift this logic into your FLS only.
Okay, so yeah, this will
basically solve the issue.
So now let's do a refresh.
Okay, homepage.
Nice.
Let's go on to the slash contact us.
Working good.
Let's go on to the slash about.
What was the page about?
Yeah, just the about.
So you can see that
not, not like this slash about.
I mean slash, about.
You can see I'm a software engineer.
But.
But if I go on to some
other page, xyz, which does
not exist, you are lost.
And even if I go to the network tab,
so what you will notice is
let me just zoom out a little bit.
So we are getting a 404
from where this 404 is coming.
It is coming from.
It is coming from here.
What if I do a 200 here?
Let's see.
So even if you are lost,
you are getting a 200.
So this is not a good
practice, right?
You, you, you are not designing
your server in a as per the rules.
So you should not do it.
I mean you can do it.
It's your server.
You are.
You can do it anything.
But these are not the standards,
these are not the norms.
So you should follow
the guidelines and norms.
Okay, so this is how you
actually create a server.
So basically you can have
the URL based on the URL what
the user is trying to access.
You can do that.
Okay, so yeah, congratulations
on your very first server.
So now you have a fully
functional server which is
more smart now do you?
Did you notice one thing guys?
That we are making a server
application logic
more and more smarter.
Earlier our server was just able
to return a single thing.
Now we have a smart logic of
a switch case which is reading that
what you are trying to access.
And based on that only
we are returning it.
So our goal is to make our
servers application logic
more and more smarter as
we proceed in this course.
Got it.
So, yeah, I mean guys, you are
really doing a great work.
So that's all for this
particular video and let's
meet you in the next one.
Until then, bye bye and take care.